Question 1:

There was no end to frustration in dealing with my first coding project: Digital Dynamix.

I had been in Second Life, looking for a sim that had something Tron themed, I missed playing the disc game with real people in Tron 2.0.

When I realized I would find nothing that I was looking for, but having seen several other items in second life that had been scripted to do similar things, I got it into my head to write the disc myself.

SL is a premade 3D world, and the scripting language lets you have a lot of control over the objects you create. The language I used was called LSL, the Linden Scripting Language. It is not a full programming language, but it does allow enough automation of the 3D objects you create in the world that entire combat systems were created off of it. I didn't realize that was what I was doing at the time, making a combat system.

One of the chief limitations of the language is that it doesn't allow different scripts to communicate with each other very quickly, or efficiently, in real time. And I had several objects with several scripts that had to respond much quicker than these channels allowed. My disc needed to work and respond in real time. I wanted it to have the feel of a first person shooter.

I found a few limited ways to update the information in the scripts without using the communication channels, some of these were known tricks, some were new ones I had found that I hadn't heard of anyone else using. I also found one that could carry a very large integer.

Despite this, I was new to programming. I hadn't really been prepared for the time or effort that would go into just a few lines of code at times.

I think what helped me get through the most frustrating times was that I didn't realize how far I had to go. I was literally standing at the brink of my own ignorance, forging ahead. I had no real mentors in this area. I just never realized I couldn't do what I was attempting to do. It never occured to me to give up, because it wasn't a matter of it being possible, just finding a way.
And I really wanted to make that disc. It was something I really enjoyed working on. The frustration was challenging. I can't stand the idea of a math problem or a bit of code being beyond my understanding. Give me time, and I will figure it out.
